src/pages/about.md, before:

---
title: About
permalink: /about/index.html
---

Hello.

I am a Bristol (UK) based tech lead who specialises in [Umbraco](https://umbraco.com/training/certified-developers/developer/?uid=39235) and ASP.NET. I work for a company called [TPXimpact](https://www.tpximpact.com), a creative tech agency aimed at providing positive change. Previously, I have worked for [BeerBods](https://beerbods.co.uk/), a beer club and subscription service; and before that I worked for [Zone](https://www.zonedigital.com/uk/), named as one of the best digital agencies in the UK. 

With over 10 years of working in the industry, I have been fortunate to work with clients such as Breast Cancer Now, Greene King, BMW Group, RSPB, British Cycling and Sky to name a few.

I'm interested in the future of the web, ensuring that it is an accessible platform for developers and users alike. I like to build solutions with the customer in focus, aiming for the best possible experience with a friendly tone. Even complex problems can appear simple. In some way, the posts that I'll write will be an attempt to provide that outlook.

I help run an Umbraco [meetup group](https://www.meetup.com/umBristol/) in Bristol and have done a few [talks](/talks/) at local meetup groups and conferences. When time allows, I try to contribute to open source projects and the wider community as a whole. More recently, becoming an [Umbraco MVP](https://community.umbraco.com/mvp-program/current-mvps/) and joining the [sustainability community team](https://umbraco.com/blog/meet-the-new-community-sustainability-team/).

Feel free to follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/mozzydev), [Mastadon](https://umbracocommunity.social/@mozzydev) or drop me an [email](mailto:hello@tcmorris.net).

Commit message:

Add meta data, defer script

src/pages/about.md, after:

---
title: About
metaDesc: Thomas Morris is a Bristol (UK) based tech lead who specialises in Umbraco and ASP.NET.
permalink: /about/index.html
---

Hello.

I am a Bristol (UK) based tech lead who specialises in [Umbraco](https://umbraco.com/training/certified-developers/developer/?uid=39235) and ASP.NET. I work for a company called [TPXimpact](https://www.tpximpact.com), a creative tech agency aimed at providing positive change. Previously, I have worked for [BeerBods](https://beerbods.co.uk/), a beer club and subscription service; and before that I worked for [Zone](https://www.zonedigital.com/uk/), named as one of the best digital agencies in the UK. 

With over 10 years of working in the industry, I have been fortunate to work with clients such as Breast Cancer Now, Greene King, BMW Group, RSPB, British Cycling and Sky to name a few.

I'm interested in the future of the web, ensuring that it is an accessible platform for developers and users alike. I like to build solutions with the customer in focus, aiming for the best possible experience with a friendly tone. Even complex problems can appear simple. In some way, the posts that I'll write will be an attempt to provide that outlook.

I help run an Umbraco [meetup group](https://www.meetup.com/umBristol/) in Bristol and have done a few [talks](/talks/) at local meetup groups and conferences. When time allows, I try to contribute to open source projects and the wider community as a whole. More recently, becoming an [Umbraco MVP](https://community.umbraco.com/mvp-program/current-mvps/) and joining the [sustainability community team](https://umbraco.com/blog/meet-the-new-community-sustainability-team/).

Feel free to follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/mozzydev), [Mastadon](https://umbracocommunity.social/@mozzydev) or drop me an [email](mailto:hello@tcmorris.net).
